---
layout: post
title: Introducing this blog
---

I've decided to start a blog to share my thoughts and opinions on cloud data services. 

<!--more-->

But what exactly do I mean by "cloud data services"? I'm referring to the services which are native to the cloud and are built for storing, processing, and analyzing data. These services are also referred to as "managed" services because in addition to their core capabilities, they also provide extra management, reliability, and scalability features. Interestingly, many of these services are also derived from an open-source project or have directly inspired an open-source project. Some notable examples include Amazon's Aurora, Google's Dataflow, and Microsoft's DocumentDB. I'm going to explore these and other cloud data services by reviewing recent papers, blog posts, and presentations on this subject area. 

My reviews will be based on my experience as a Solution Architect as well as my previous life as a Database Administrator. Each review will follow a standard format that I used as a grad student a long time ago: **1) biggest contribution;** **2) biggest mistake;** **3) biggest question**. This format may seem a bit rigid, but I think it helps to focus the discussion and keep each review down to a few paragraphs in the length. 

My hope is that some of these reviews will be useful to those who are looking to go beyond the how-to documentation for each data service and maybe want to analyze some of the design choices and trade-offs that the underlying systems are making. 

Please note: this is my personal blog and does not reflect the views of Rackspace or its management in any way.